protesters in bristol have pulled down a
statue of edward colston
a slave trader and mp what we've seen in
bristol this afternoon it is
unacceptable
i will not support or indulge those who
break the law
or attack the police or desecrate public
monuments
[Applause]
those people will face the full force of
the law
the statute of subtle roads is to be
taken down
at oxford's oriole college they
recommended it
just annoys me that we're trying to
rewrite history
yes some of our history is is pretty
horrific and i totally agree that in any
statement
what do you think about the statues
coming down for me i think it's a
great time i think it's an important
thing to be doing
why you want to teach the history teach
both sides of history what about the
contributions the black british have
made to this country that is not
ingrained in our educational system
and it's important to remember that the
statutes are not for learning they're
not for education
they're for celebrating particular
individuals
we've seen statues being taken down some
being defaced
some you know just you know people just
scribbling and
kind of sharing their thoughts i mean
what do you make of that
debate because that seems to have framed
part of the way that it's being
discussed certainly in the news
i mean it's a bit of a joke that the
british empire
which plays such a fundamental role in
british history
is not on the national curriculum and i
think we should be asking serious
questions
as to why that is then if you're going
to enslave people and take their land
and take their resources and exploit
them
you need a philosophical justification
for this and
racism was the justification that was
given and if we understand the roots of
that racism
that will be fundamental to helping us
to understanding
how those legacies still live with us
today these statues
lots of resistance to taking them down
you know we've got the you know
prime minister saying you know we
shouldn't edit parts of our history like
this you know like what
what's the resistance about these
statues are symbols of
british nationalism british pride
british patriotism
and a lot of these political leaders or
other peoples of power
are heavily invested in this kind of
nationalism but i think the other thing
is more material it's more real if we
have a real reckoning
with britain's imperial and colonial
past we're not just me thinking about
the ideas of racism
that they set around the world we're
also going to have to have a question
about the money and so arguing that
there needs to be some kind of
reparatory justice
if we're going to really record that
history and the wealth that britain
still lives with given its vast imperial
exploits
again is something quite dangerous i
think scary
for our british establishments
[Music]
and you have let them go and deface and
spray paint
churchill statue you are souls
how many people are going to london next
saturday
every single man should be in london
next saturday
or forever don't call yourself a patriot
shouldn't have been done in that way um
completely wrong to
pull a statue down like that but um
stepping back that statue should have
been taken down a long long time
ago
the organization black lives matter
is a far-left marxist organization
that whose chief aim is to defund
and close down police forces so that we
would live
under america oh you're full of such
utter nonsense
i understand that you're struggling to
be relevant
[Music]
i think everyone's very worried about
any type of voice war that could occur
because
it 100 takes away from what it is that
we're trying to achieve
[Music]
the cenotaph and the statue of sir
winston churchill in parliament square
have been covered up
after they were vandalized last weekend
the statue of winston churchill who is a
national hero has had to be boarded up
for fear of violent attack and
that to me is both absurd and
and and they will face the full force of
the law it is not acceptable
in this country to attack a police
officer it is not acceptable
uh to set out in a calculated way to do
damage
uh to uh public property let alone to
a statue of winston churchill so that is
the approach we will take
[Music]
london's metropolitan police is gearing
up for more protests on the streets of
the capital today
officers are concerned the anti-racism
protests could clash
with counter demonstrations
the demonstrators said they had turned
out to guard our
monuments it's wrong to desecrate the
statue of winston churchill
you can kind of hear them kind of piping
up now you know it's like
it is a bit unnerving to be honest
you know like i mean just just look i
mean
like every two minutes you know
that line of people is the exact
line of where racial tolerance ends in
this country
so if that's gonna change then we need
to get from
tolerance to acceptance to
to being celebrated to being embraced
and
looking over there it looks like we've
still got
a long way to go